# surrogate_deeplearning
Meteorological forcing data from NLDAS-2: https://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/datasets/NLDAS_FORA0125_H_002/summary;
Variable Infiltration Capacity (VIC) Macroscale Hydrologic Model: https://vic.readthedocs.io/en/vic.5.0.1/;
VIC parameters used in paper are illustrated in "38 VIC parameters.jpg".

The study area is similar to that of the previous study (Tsai et al. (2021)), which is the land area covered by North American Land Data Assimilation System phase-II dataset (NLDAS-2) with a spatial resolution of 0.125 × 0.125. The study area is a rectangle region (25 ∼ 53N; −125 ∼ −67E) with a size of 224 × 464, in which the mask matrix masks the grids on the sea, and in fact, the number of grids employed for VIC simulation in the study area is 78496. In this study, we run the VIC 5.0 model using an image-driven approach, which operates in a space-before-time evaluation order and uses MPI (Message Passing Interface) for parallel processing. 

We collect atmospheric forcing data from NLDAS-2, which includes seven meteorological forcing variables (precipitation, air temperature, atmospheric pressure, incoming shortwave radiation, incoming longwave radiation, vapor pressure, wind speed) used to drive the VIC model with temporal resolution of three hours. The surface data used to make distributed parameter maps includes elevation data, soil data, and vegetation data. The DEM (Digital Elevation Model) data is sourced from the Geospatial Data Cloud (http://www.gscloud.cn/), with a spatial resolution of 90 meters. The data is resampled to a 12.5 km model resolution using QGIS. The vegetation data is derived from the global 1km resolution land cover dataset (UMD 1km) published by the University of Maryland. Based on the UMD 1km land cover classification standard, the land cover types are categorized into 14 classes. Vegetation types within each grid of our study area are classified and statistically analyzed, and the area proportion of each vegetation type within the grid is calculated. The soil parameters we prepared come from the soil dataset (v1.2) of the Harmonized World Soil Database (HWSD) and the publicly available VICGLOBAL soil parameter dataset (https://zenodo.org/records/5038653), which is used to drive the global VIC model at a spatial resolution of 0.0625 degrees. 

